# CITS4404 Team Project

# Getting Started

To use this codebase, you will need need to install the required pip packages. Follow the following steps:
1. Create a virtual Python environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   ```

2. Activate the virtual environment: 
   ```bash
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```
   (For platform specific command, see [the docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html#how-venvs-work))

3. Install the required packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

To reproduce the results in the report, you can run the `visualisation.ipynb` notebook (The plots aren't automatically saved in the folder). All random number generation in that notebook is seeded to ensure reproducibility.

# Project Structure:

## `algos/*`
- Contains the implementations of the algorithms used in the project.
- Each algorithm is implemented in a separate file.
- The algorithms all extend the `BaseAlgo` class in `algos/base.py`.
- The `BaseAlgo` class provides a common interface for all algorithms.
- The `BaseAlgo` class also provides some common functionality for all algorithms, such as:
    - Plotting convergence curves.
    - Saving and loading algorithm parameters.
    - Saving and loading algorithm state (mtaintaing the population and best solution).
    - Making a seedable random number generator available.
    - Initialising the population. 
    - Storing historical best params from previous optimisation runs. (Note: the class is designed so that running multiple optimisations sequentially will be akin to running separate instances.)
- Each algorithm will override the `_algo_init` method to implement its own initialisation logic.
- Each algorithm will override the `_algo_iter` method to implement its own logic for each iteration. 

## `datasets/*`
- This contains classes that help with data loading and preprocessing.
- Right now only the Kaggle dataset from the project brief is supported.
- `ccxt` support was planned but not implemented yet.
- The idea is that in the future, each dataset would almost become a 'broker' offering functionlity like paper trading, etc.

## `signals.py`
- This file contains all the signal generation functions and necessary helper functions. See the file for more documentation. 

## `bot.py`
- This contains the `sim_bot` function which takes in a signal containing the buy/sell signals and efficiently simulates the trades with given parameters (the defaults are aligned with the project brief).
- It cashes out at the end of the simulation and returns the final balance.
- If the first signal is a sell signal, it will buy the asset at the first price in the dataset.

## `test_*.ipynb`
- These are the Jupyter notebooks used for testing various parts of the codebase. 
- The plots used in this codespace are generated by Plotly which offers interactive plots. This is useful for exploring the data more intuitively.

## `visualisation.ipynb`
- This notebooks contains not only the visualisation but the testing done for the report. 

## `plots/*`
- This folders simply contains the plots generated in `visualisation.ipynb` for the report. 

